---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---  

Even though this summer was jam-packed, it still seems to have gone very quickly. As my DREU experience comes to an end, I want to reflect on what I learned, the highs and lows of the summer, and my hopes for the future. 

This summer I learned a lot about video processing, image question answering, Neural Modular Networks, compositionality, and building benchmarks. Outside of these topics, I practiced presenting both my and other people’s work, successfully applied for funding, and attended my first conference.

Overall, I absolutely loved my DREU experience. I have so many highlights, but I especially enjoyed the weekly presentations, CVPR, and getting to know the PhD students, professors, and other interns. As I’ve described in many other blog posts, I attended meetings for the HCI group, the Vision group, and Michael Bernstein’s group. More often than not, they had professors and PhD students from within Stanford and across the country Zoom in and present their work. Some had slide deck presentations, while others focused on group discussions. I loved these presentations as a way to see what field as a whole was working on outside my narrow view. They also opened my eyes to many different ways within academia to push for social justice in computing. Another highlight of the summer was attending virtual CVPR 2020. Although it would have been better to be in person, I still learned a ton both about the actual content, the different parts of the field of Computer Vision, and what makes an effective or ineffective research presentation. Finally, all of the people I have gotten to know have been engaging, supportive, and kind. I’m grateful for knowing them and being able to hear their advice and opinions. 

Although the summer was essentially one big highlight, there were definitely days I felt overwhelmed, anxious, or incompetant. Michael Bernstein talked in the beginning about “velocity” and “vectoring”. Velocity is the idea that it is better to try and fail at a whole bunch of different ways of tackling a problem rather than spending too much time thinking in the abstract and developing a perfect idea. Vectoring is the idea that you do not want to run down every rabbit hole and idea, but instead focus ont he part of the  project that is the most likely to fail and try to figure out only that part instead of tackling the whole thing at once. Although both these ideas felt very abstract in the beginning of the summer, I definitely see how useful those ideas can be. At some points it felt as though the task list for the project added 5 things for every 1 thing I completed, so reframing my goals through these lenses were very helpful. I’m glad to have worked through the lows and learned from them.

After this summer, I have a much more solid understanding of what I want to do after college. I had previously debated a lot on whether or not I wanted to do a PhD, but now I am nearly certain that I do. I’ve become much more confident in that decision for several reasons. First, I found a subject in which I am very interested and could see myself studying long term. Second, I feel like I better understand what it would entail and it feels like a less foreign experience. Third, I loved the community this summer, (even though it was virtual!), and I could see myself working in that group of people. Fourth, I got to work on my own project that I defined for the first time, and I now feel more confident that that is something I can do and enjoy doing. We plan to continue the project through the fall, and we hope to submit to CVPR in November. 

I am so grateful for my DREU experience, and I am now even more excited about the future. 
