---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

After many weeks of reading papers in preparation, I was so excited to finally officially begin my internship. I’ve really enjoyed talking to my mentor Dr. Agrawala, and Ranjay Krishna, a PhD student in the intersection of HCI and Computer Vision. In the first few weeks of regularly discussing projects, I have been inspired by their thoughtfulness, creativity, and how they approach problem solving. 

This week, my goal was to define a series of projects, including a review of current research, what studies so far was lacking, and how my project could change that. Specifically, I drafted projects in video question answering, commonsense reasoning, saliency maps, and hierarchical decomposition of actions. Although the projects had all different subjects, they all include an element of interpretability. I was not familiar with Interpretable and Explainable AI as a subject before starting research for this summer, and it’s by far the field that has piqued my interest the most. I’m looking forward to reading a lot of papers about current work, regardless of if my summer project is situated directly in the field. I’ve also talked to Ranjay and some of the other undergraduates about how the current ways of approaching explainability are not necessarily the ways the best, or future, ways the field will develop, since it is a very new field. Before this summer, I had not thought too in depth how fields begin, develop, and change over time, so it has been really interesting talking to people who think in those ways. 

This week was challenging because there were a lot of different directions to push at once, and I am looking forward to narrowing my scope and looking at projects more in depth next week. I’ve learned a lot about how much time, thought, and effort, goes into even creating a project proposal, and how many times these proposals can change while being developed! 

As the summer officially started, I began one on one calls with the other undergraduates working with Ranjay this summer. It was really fun to meet them, even though having fun talking to them reminded me of what could have been different if we were able to spend the whole summer together in person. However, I appreciate how open and excited they were to talking about our research, our hopes, and our worries for this summer. I’m really grateful to have a group of undergraduate and new graduate students in a similar position as me with whom to talk. They are all working on such an interesting and wide variety of projects, which is a nice reminder of how diverse the field is. 

Next week, I’m looking forward to attending my first conference, CVPR! I’m not quite sure what to expect, since it will be virtual, but I am sure I will learn a ton. I’ve been so happy to get the ball rolling this week, and I’m looking forward to seeing what comes next!

