---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

This week was especially busy and especially fun because of virtual CVPR 2020. I’m grateful everyone put in so much work getting the conference running virtually and we were still able to hear people’s work. 

It was very eye opening to see how many different areas there are in Computer Vision. Although I’m glad that accountability, fairness, bias, and explainability were included as topics and are growing, I’m looking forward to seeing if they permeate throughout all the other vision topics as well, instead of being confined to their own subfield. Regarding explainability, it was interesting seeing the gap between how a lot of the conversations and papers I had previously read tried to expand explainability beyond descriptive measures, but how a lot of explainability papers focused on the visualized attention. I also had not realized how many talks brought up how cognitive science and childhood development could be applied to vision. Most of my previous research was in psychology and cognitive science, so it was cool to see people interested in those concepts.

Although I listened to talks in a variety of subjects, I focused a lot on workshops and oral sessions that had to do with my two project proposals. One paper that stuck out was [Ego-Topo by Nagarajan et al](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2020/papers/Nagarajan_Ego-Topo_Environment_Affordances_From_Egocentric_Video_CVPR_2020_paper.pdf). I have been thinking and reading about learning commonsense set of affordances on objects. Affordances refer to what actions are possible on a set of objects (ie you can easily pick up a cup but not a stove). However, this paper looked at affordances by location (ie you can run water at the sink but not at the stove). I have also been thinking about, for my other project idea, how to use a graph representation of video to improve understanding. The Ego-Topo paper represented the video as a traversal of a graph where every node was a location, grouping actions that occur at the same location into one node. Another talk that stuck out to me was Aude Oliva’s talk on how she predicts the use of commonsense in vision will develop in the next few years. 
	
Overall, I enjoyed the conference. It was definitely a bit overwhelming with the sheer mass of talks and with balancing going to the conference with continuing to work on my project. However, it was nice to see what papers resonated with people in our shared slack channel, and to discuss thoughts and reactions to everyone. I was inspired by how Ranjay both looked at the individual talks, but also spent a lot of time thinking about what the conference said about what topics people are currently interested in, and what directions the field will likely go in the future. Compared to psychology, this field seems to change hot topics and tasks very quickly, so there are more frequent shifts of relevant topics. 

I’m really happy that I attended the conference, and I learned so much. Next week I’m looking forward to shifting focus back to defining and finally choosing a project!
